README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/phstc/putsreq.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/phstc/putsreq)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq/coverage)

## PutsReq

PutsReq lets you record HTTP requests and simulate responses like no other tool available. [Try it now](http://putsreq.com)!

Check this post: [Play Rock-paper-scissors with Slack and PutsReq](http://www.pablocantero.com/blog/2014/10/12/play-rock-paper-scissors-with-slack-and-putsreq/) for some other examples.

### Getting Started

### Response Builder

The Response Builder is the place where you can create your responses using JavaScript V8.

Check the list below with the request attributes you can access to create your own responses:

#### request

```javascript
// curl -X POST -H 'X-MyHeader: MyHeaderValue' -d 'name=Pablo' https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>

request.request_method
// => POST

request.body
// => name=Pablo

request.params.name
// => Pablo

request.headers['HTTP_X_MYHEADER']
// => MyHeaderValue
```

Parsing a JSON request:

```javascript
// curl -i -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"message":"Hello World"}' https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>

var parsedBody = JSON.parse(request.body)

parsedBody.message
// => Hello World
```

#### response

```javascript
response.status = 200 // default value
response.headers = {} // default value
response.body = 'ok' // default value
```

Returning a JSON response:

```javascript
response.headers['Content-Type'] = 'application/json'

response.body = { message: 'Hello World' }
```

#### forwardTo

If you only want to log your requests, you can use PutsReq just as a proxy for your requests.

```javascript
request.forwardTo = 'http://example.com/api'
```

But you can always modify requests before forwarding them.

```javascript
// add or change a header
request.headers['X-MyNewHeader'] = 'MyHeaderValue'

var parsedBody = JSON.parse(request.body)

// add or change a value
parsedBody['my_new_key'] = 'my new value'

request.body = parsedBody

request.forwardTo = 'http://example.com/api'
```

### CLI

Do want to test Webhook calls against your localhost? PutsReq makes it easy!

You can think of it, as a kind of [ngrok](http://ngrok.io), but instead of creating a tunnel to your localhost, PutsReq polls requests from `YOUR-PUTSREQ-TOKEN` and forwards to your localhost.

```bash
gem install putsreq

putsreq forward --to http://localhost:3000 --token YOUR-TOKEN

Listening requests from YOUR-TOKEN
Forwarding to http://localhost:3000
Press CTRL+c to terminate
2016-12-21 20:49:54 -0200       POST    200
```

### Ajax

PutsReq supports [CORS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing), so you can use it to test your Ajax calls.

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Your Website</title>
    <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.2.0/jquery.min.js"></script>
    <script>
    // Sample PutsReq Response Builder
    // https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>/inspect
    // response.headers['Content-Type'] = 'application/json';
    // response.body = { 'message': 'Hello World' };

    // Sample Ajax call
    $.get('https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>', function(data) {
      alert(data.message);
      // => 'Hello World'
    });
    </script>
  </head>
  <body>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Sample Integration Tests

https://github.com/phstc/putsreq_integration_sample

### Steps to run PutsReq in development

For following the instructions below, you will need to install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-docker).

```shell
cd ~/workspace

git clone git@github.com:phstc/putsreq.git

docker-compose up -d

open http://localhost:3000

docker-compose logs --follow --tail=100 app
```

#### Running tests

```shell
docker-compose run app bundle exec rspec
```

### Production

In production (Heroku), PutsReq runs on mLab sandbox, with a storage of 500 MB. For avoiding exceeding the capacity, the `requests` and `responses` collections must be converted into capped collections.

```javascript
db.runCommand({ convertToCapped: 'requests', size: 15000000 })
db.runCommand({ convertToCapped: 'responses', size: 15000000 })
```

### Production setup through Docker

This walks you through a quick guideline in order to setup PutsReq on your own server through Docker and Docker Compose. Please read this section carefully and know what you are doing in order not to lose any data.

#### Configuration
The `docker-compose.yml` file.
```
version: '3.6'
services:
  db:
    image: mongo:3.6.17
    tty: true
    stdin_open: true
    volumes:
      - data:/data/db
  redis:
    image: redis:alpine
  app:
    image: daqzilla/putsreq
    tty: true
    stdin_open: true
    command: /bin/sh -c "rm -f /app/tmp/pids/server.pid && bundle exec rails server -p 3000 -b '0.0.0.0'"
    ports:
      - '5050:3000'
    env_file:
      - .env.docker
    depends_on:
      - db
      - redis
volumes:
  data:
    external:
      name: putsreq_mongodb
```

The `.env.docker` file.
```
RAILS_ENV=production
MONGOLAB_URI=mongodb://db
REDIS_URL=redis://redis
DEVISE_SECRET_KEY=123
SECRET_TOKEN=123
```

#### External Docker volume FTW
The external volume referenced within the `docker-compose.yml` file has been created by invoking:
```
docker volume create --name=putsreq_mongodb
```

The rationale for creating the external volume is https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53870416/data-does-not-persist-to-host-volume-with-docker-compose-yml-for-mongodb. Otherwise, data stored in MongoDB might get lost as already observed by @ddavtian within #51.

#### Ready-made Docker image on Docker Hub
Additionally, the Docker image on https://hub.docker.com/r/daqzilla/putsreq has been amended using the patch [putsreq-production.patch.txt](https://github.com/phstc/putsreq/files/4554757/putsreq-production.patch.txt).

While we recognize it is not the most performant way to compile and serve assets like that on a production instance (precompiling and serving them from a webserver in a static manner should be preferred), it perfectly fits our bill.

#### Reverse-proxy configuration for Nginx
Last but not least, this Nginx snippet has been used for configuring a HTTP reverse proxy to the PutsReq instance:
```
server {
    listen 443 ssl;
    listen [::]:443 ssl;

    server_name putsreq.example.org;

    #include snippets/snakeoil.conf;
    include snippets/ssl/putsreq.example.org;

    proxy_buffering off;

    location / {
        proxy_set_header        Host               $http_host;
        proxy_set_header        X-Real-IP          $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header        X-Forwarded-For    $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header        X-Forwarded-Proto  $scheme;
        proxy_pass              http://localhost:5050/;
    }

}
```


### License

Please see [LICENSE](https://github.com/phstc/putsreq/blob/master/LICENSE) for licensing details.

Commit message:

Adjust quick&dirty production setup guidelines

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/phstc/putsreq.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/phstc/putsreq)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/phstc/putsreq/coverage)

## PutsReq

PutsReq lets you record HTTP requests and simulate responses like no other tool available. [Try it now](http://putsreq.com)!

Check this post: [Play Rock-paper-scissors with Slack and PutsReq](http://www.pablocantero.com/blog/2014/10/12/play-rock-paper-scissors-with-slack-and-putsreq/) for some other examples.

### Getting Started

### Response Builder

The Response Builder is the place where you can create your responses using JavaScript V8.

Check the list below with the request attributes you can access to create your own responses:

#### request

```javascript
// curl -X POST -H 'X-MyHeader: MyHeaderValue' -d 'name=Pablo' https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>

request.request_method
// => POST

request.body
// => name=Pablo

request.params.name
// => Pablo

request.headers['HTTP_X_MYHEADER']
// => MyHeaderValue
```

Parsing a JSON request:

```javascript
// curl -i -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"message":"Hello World"}' https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>

var parsedBody = JSON.parse(request.body)

parsedBody.message
// => Hello World
```

#### response

```javascript
response.status = 200 // default value
response.headers = {} // default value
response.body = 'ok' // default value
```

Returning a JSON response:

```javascript
response.headers['Content-Type'] = 'application/json'

response.body = { message: 'Hello World' }
```

#### forwardTo

If you only want to log your requests, you can use PutsReq just as a proxy for your requests.

```javascript
request.forwardTo = 'http://example.com/api'
```

But you can always modify requests before forwarding them.

```javascript
// add or change a header
request.headers['X-MyNewHeader'] = 'MyHeaderValue'

var parsedBody = JSON.parse(request.body)

// add or change a value
parsedBody['my_new_key'] = 'my new value'

request.body = parsedBody

request.forwardTo = 'http://example.com/api'
```

### CLI

Do want to test Webhook calls against your localhost? PutsReq makes it easy!

You can think of it, as a kind of [ngrok](http://ngrok.io), but instead of creating a tunnel to your localhost, PutsReq polls requests from `YOUR-PUTSREQ-TOKEN` and forwards to your localhost.

```bash
gem install putsreq

putsreq forward --to http://localhost:3000 --token YOUR-TOKEN

Listening requests from YOUR-TOKEN
Forwarding to http://localhost:3000
Press CTRL+c to terminate
2016-12-21 20:49:54 -0200       POST    200
```

### Ajax

PutsReq supports [CORS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing), so you can use it to test your Ajax calls.

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Your Website</title>
    <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.2.0/jquery.min.js"></script>
    <script>
    // Sample PutsReq Response Builder
    // https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>/inspect
    // response.headers['Content-Type'] = 'application/json';
    // response.body = { 'message': 'Hello World' };

    // Sample Ajax call
    $.get('https://putsreq.com/<YOUR-TOKEN>', function(data) {
      alert(data.message);
      // => 'Hello World'
    });
    </script>
  </head>
  <body>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Sample Integration Tests

https://github.com/phstc/putsreq_integration_sample

### Steps to run PutsReq in development

For following the instructions below, you will need to install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-docker).

```shell
cd ~/workspace

git clone git@github.com:phstc/putsreq.git

docker-compose up -d

open http://localhost:3000

docker-compose logs --follow --tail=100 app
```

#### Running tests

```shell
docker-compose run app bundle exec rspec
```

### Production

In production (Heroku), PutsReq runs on mLab sandbox, with a storage of 500 MB. For avoiding exceeding the capacity, the `requests` and `responses` collections must be converted into capped collections.

```javascript
db.runCommand({ convertToCapped: 'requests', size: 15000000 })
db.runCommand({ convertToCapped: 'responses', size: 15000000 })
```

### Production setup through Docker

This walks you through a quick guideline in order to setup PutsReq on your own server through Docker and Docker Compose. Please read this section carefully and know what you are doing in order not to lose any data.

#### Configuration
The `docker-compose.yml` file.
```
version: '3.6'
services:
  db:
    image: mongo:3.6.17
    tty: true
    stdin_open: true
    volumes:
      - data:/data/db
  redis:
    image: redis:alpine
  app:
    image: daqzilla/putsreq
    tty: true
    stdin_open: true
    command: /bin/sh -c "rm -f /app/tmp/pids/server.pid && bundle exec rails server -p 3000 -b '0.0.0.0'"
    ports:
      - '5050:3000'
    env_file:
      - .env.docker
    depends_on:
      - db
      - redis
volumes:
  data:
    external:
      name: putsreq_mongodb
```

The `.env.docker` file.
```
RAILS_ENV=production
MONGOLAB_URI=mongodb://db
REDIS_URL=redis://redis
DEVISE_SECRET_KEY=123
SECRET_TOKEN=123
```

#### External Docker volume FTW
The external volume referenced within the `docker-compose.yml` file has been created by invoking:
```
docker volume create --name=putsreq_mongodb
```

The rationale for creating the external volume is https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53870416/data-does-not-persist-to-host-volume-with-docker-compose-yml-for-mongodb. Otherwise, data stored in MongoDB might get lost as already observed by @ddavtian within #51.

#### Reverse-proxy configuration for Nginx
Last but not least, this Nginx snippet has been used for configuring a HTTP reverse proxy to the PutsReq instance:
```
server {
    listen 443 ssl;
    listen [::]:443 ssl;

    server_name putsreq.example.org;

    #include snippets/snakeoil.conf;
    include snippets/ssl/putsreq.example.org;

    proxy_buffering off;

    location / {
        proxy_set_header        Host               $http_host;
        proxy_set_header        X-Real-IP          $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header        X-Forwarded-For    $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header        X-Forwarded-Proto  $scheme;
        proxy_pass              http://localhost:5050/;
    }

}
```

#### Ready-made Docker image on Docker Hub
The Docker image on https://hub.docker.com/r/daqzilla/putsreq has been amended using the patch [putsreq-production.patch.txt](https://github.com/phstc/putsreq/files/4554757/putsreq-production.patch.txt).

It is not the most performant way to compile and serve assets like that on a production instance, precompiling and serving them from a webserver in a static manner should be preferred.

#### Outlook
Improving this quick&dirty production-configuration would be nice, pull requests are welcome. In order to make that possible, a) the image on Docker Hub should be republished without the amendments but with precompiled assets and b) the Nginx snippet should be adjusted to serve the assets statically.


### License

Please see [LICENSE](https://github.com/phstc/putsreq/blob/master/LICENSE) for licensing details.
